This week you will design and diagram a 3 tier architecture. What this quick video for a better understanding of what a 3 tier architecture is: https://youtu.be/nMSp3ygB5F0

For a free diagraming tool you can use https://app.diagrams.net/  or https://lucid.app/ (there are others out there, but stick with free).

Video on how to diagram: https://youtu.be/cLnuMtuTB2M

Verification and Deliverables:

Make sure you can access the web tier web page from the internet.

From the web tier verify that you can ping the application tier from the web tier by running the ping command from an EC2 instance in the web tier.

Send diagram to coaches

FOUNDATIONAL

Scenario:
You have been asked to design and create a highly available 3 Tier architecture for your company's new web application.

Advice:
1)Build out one tier at a time. The best way to eat an elephant is one bite at a time.
2)Verify that you can do the foundational project first before building out to the ADVANCED and COMPLEX options.
NOTE: NAT Gateways, Elastic IPs, and ALBs do have a small cost. Ensure you delete them after your project.

Web Tier

2 public subnets

Minimum of 2 EC2 instances with an OS of your choice (free tier) in an Auto Scaling Group.

EC2 Web Server Security Group allowing inbound permission from the internet.

Boot strap static web page or create a custom AMI that already includes the static web page.

Create a public route table and associate the 2 public subnets.

Application Tier

2 private subnets

Minimum of 2 EC2 instances with an OS of your choice (free tier) in an Auto Scaling Group.

EC2 Application Server Security Group allowing inbound permission from the Web Server Security Group.

Associate with private route table.Note: This is not a true application tier as we don't have any provided code to run on the EC2 instances.

Database Tier

Use a free Tier MySql RDS Database.

The Database Security Group should allow inbound traffic for MySQL from the Application Server Security Group.

2 private subnets.

Associate with private route table.Note: No need to use Multi-AZ but be sure to document how you would add it

Remember that when diagraming this tier you are only creating one RDS instance in one subnet even though you are creating two subnets. If you use multi-az or a read replica then and only then should you have a second instance. Make sure to label accordingly.

Considerations:

You will need to configure a public route table along with private route tables.

You will need a Nat Gateway in one of your public subnets to allow your instances in private subnets to update packages and patches. Make sure to include this in the private route table.

In order to reach your EC2 instances in the private subnets, you will either need a bastion host in the public subnet or need to use SSM. You will need to research into both to see which works better for your use case.

Plan out your CIDRs before you create your VPC and Subnets

ADVANCED (DO NOT ATTEMPT UNTIL YOU HAVE DONE THE FOUNDATIONAL PROJECT)
Application Load Balancers should be used for the Web Tiers with the same Security Group considerations. Example The ALB should allow HTTP traffic from 0.0.0.0/0 and the Web Server Security group should allow traffic only from the ALB. Don't forget to create Target Groups and enable Health Checks.

COMPLEX
Do all of this using CloudFormation
